Add three new theorems regarding countable pi-character (#1791)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000904.md

---
uid: T000904
if:
  and:
  - P000087: true
  - P000244: true
then:
  P000028: true
---

Because {T347}, it suffices to check the identity element $e$ has a countable local basis. Let $\mathcal{U}$ be a countable local $\pi$-base around $e$. Put $\mathcal{W} = \{U \cdot U^{-1}: U \in \mathcal{U}\}.

> We claim $\mathcal{W}$ is a countable local basis around $e$. It is clear that every element of $\mathcal{W}$ is a nbhd of $e$. If $O$ is an open nbhd of $e$, one can find an open nbhd $W$ of $e$ so that $W^2 \subseteq O$ by continuity of $(x, y) \mapsto x \cdot y$, and then $V = W \cap W^{-1}$ is open with $e \in V$.

Reviewer: FYI, people here don't really want to use "nbhd" as an abbreviation.  See #1742.

We often write things informally in comments between us, but the final version for the web pages must be more polished.

Author: Oh, fair enough.

> By hypothesis, there is $U \in \mathcal{U}$ so that $U \subseteq V$. Then one can easily verify that $U \cdot U^{-1} \subseteq O$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because {T347}, it suffices to check the identity element $e$ has a countable local base.
Let $\mathcal{U}$ be a countable local $\pi$-base around $e$.
Put $\mathcal{W} = \{U \cdot U^{-1}: U \in \mathcal{U}\}$.

We claim $\mathcal{W}$ is a countable local base around $e$.
Every element of $\mathcal{W}$ is an open neighbourhood of $e$.
And if $V$ is a neighbourhood of $e$, there is an open neighbourhood $O$ of $e$ such that $O\cdot O^{-1}\subseteq V$ by continuity of the group operations.
By hypothesis, $O$ contains some $U \in \mathcal{U}$.
Then $U \cdot U^{-1} \subseteq V$.
```
slightly shorter, easier.  Plus minor stuff about nhds (nbhds need not be open in general).
